The President:  Wow.
Thank you very much.
So, we’re coming in
and we’re landing and I say,
“You know, I have a choice:
I can stay on the plane
and relax as we fuel up, right?
As we fuel up.”
Or, I said, “How good
are they out there?”
Somebody looked at me and said,
“They’re the best.”
You’re supposed
to the best, right?
You’re right on the front.
(applause)
I said, “All right,
so let’s go.”
Put on the tie.
Put on the shirt.
But I wanted to be with you.
And it’s an honor to be
with you, I have to tell you.
Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson,
right now, at ease.
Let’s have a little fun, right?
Audience:  Hooah!
The President:  We’ll have
a little fun.
Listen to you.
You are something.
Well, I want to thank
General Tom Bussiere
for the introduction,
and done a really great job.
Highly respected man.
I know the ones
that are highly respected
and I know we have some others.
But usually when you get to
general, you’re right up there.
But he’s done a fantastic job.
And, General,
thank you very much.
Appreciate it very much
for the introduction.
And also, I want to thank
all of the folks with the NORAD.
And when we talk NORAD,
we’re talking about big stuff.
I learned so much about NORAD
so many years ago,
studying different things.
You know, I love —
I love this world.
And, actually, over here,
my grandfather was up in Alaska
for a long time.
He was looking for gold.
He was searching for gold.
He didn’t find it,
but he started
opening up little hotels
for those looking for gold,
and it worked out.
But he was up in —
and maybe that’s why
I’ve always had a very special
place in my heart for Alaska.
And when election time
came along,
somehow the people of Alaska
knew that
and they voted very, very —
it wasn’t even
a little bit close.
So I just really appreciated
that always.
And, you know,
it’s a very special place.
And I don’t know
if some of the folks —
the military folks care
about this,
but the people of Alaska
really care about it.
I just approved, recently —
and almost one of my earlier
acts in office,
ANWR,
which is one of the largest
deposits anywhere in the world.
And for many, many years they’ve
been trying to get it approved,
since before Ronald Reagan.
And they couldn’t get it done.
And we were just talking
to your great governor.
He is doing a very special job.
And he said,
“We really appreciate
that you got that done.”
And we got some other things
done for Alaska too.
But when you look at that,
ANWR is one of —
if you’re in the oil industry
you know a lot about ANWR.
One of the most important
finds anywhere.
They just couldn’t do anything
about it, but now we can.
So that’s going to be great.
But I also — and I mentioned
Mike Dunleavy.
I just want to say he has been
an incredible warrior.
He ran an incredible campaign.
He won easily.
He’s not only one of the best
governors in the United States;
he’s definitely the largest.
Where is Mike? Look at that man.
He’s all man. Look at him.
Congratulations, Mike,
and thank you for being here.
He heard I was going to stop,
and he got on a plane
and he was able to get here.
And that’s a great honor.
It’s always nice though —
when you endorse somebody,
it’s always nice
when they want to be there
when you make a speech, right?
And he’s always there.
He’s there anyway and he’s done
an incredible job for Alaska.
And I will tell you, in front
of all of these great troops,
I’ll say: Mike, anytime you have
a problem, you call me.
You know that, okay? And we’ll
take care of it for Alaska.
Right?
You know that.
As you know, I’m on my way
back from Vietnam.
I wanted to stop here
to share my gratitude
to every brave soldier,
sailor, airman,
Marine, Coast Guardsman,
and National Guardsman
who serves in the
“Land of the Midnight Sun.”
What a beautiful term.
It’s what it is, too.
It’s great to be standing in
this hangar with an F-22 Raptor,
the mighty sound
of American freedom.
That’s pretty good stuff, huh?
(applause)
That’s pretty good stuff.
I’ll tell you, look at it.
Even your fire engine
looks pretty good, right?
(laughter)
Well, the fact is,
we’ve increased your budget
from not too much
to $700 billion.
And then, from $700 billion,
we went up to $716 billion.
And I won’t tell you
this year’s surprise,
but the generals are going to be
very happy when they hear
because it’s going up yet again,
because we have no choice.
You know, I’m a cost cutter
but we have no choice.
Without a military,
what do we have?
We have to have
a great military.
And you notice your equipment
has been getting better
and better, newer and newer?
When I got in here,
you were having jet fighters
that were so old —
you know, you heard the story —
the grandfather flew
some of the planes —
some of the bombers.
The grandfather, then the son,
then the grandchild
is here with us now.
And I don’t like that.
I don’t like that.
So we’ve ordered massive numbers
of new planes
and new everything.
It’s just an honor to come by
the joint base and be with you.
I guess we call —
we say “J-Bear,” right?
J-Bear.
(applause)
That’s what — that’s what
we want to do — J-Bear.
In 2017, our wonderful
First Lady visited J-Bear
and met with the children
of deployed service members,
and had a fantastic time.
When she hear
I was going to be here,
she said, “Say hello.”
And she’s been a really
fantastic First Lady.
Our military families
are a true national treasure.
And without all of the people
backing you brave men and women,
you know, it wouldn’t work
so well for you.
Your life would be
a lot more difficult.
It wouldn’t be the same.
You all know that.
Maybe we should give them
a round of applause, right?
Come on.
(applause)
It’s true.
There are many
incredible patriots
to recognize here today,
beginning with the outstanding
Airmen of the 11th Air Force.
Give yourselves a hand.
(applause)
The Airmen of the 3rd Wing,
and their Commander,
Colonel Bob Davis.
Bob, thank you.
Thank you, Bob. Great.
(applause)
Is he doing a good job? Huh?
Yes. They’re all saying “yes.”
(laughter)
The 673rd Air Base Wing
and your Base Commander,
Colonel Patricia Chank.
(applause)
Thank you, Patricia.
Thank you very much.
The soldiers
from U.S. Army Alaska,
and their Commander,
Major General Mark O’Neil.
Mark. Thank you, Mark.
(applause)
And the paratroopers of the 4-25
Airborne Brigade Combat Team,
the “Spartan Brigade,”
and their Commander,
Colonel Jason Jones.
(applause)
Colonel, thank you.
Thank you, Jason.
Thank you as well
to every warrior —
and that’s what you are;
you’re warriors — in the Navy,
Marines, and Coast Guard.
Finally, I want to thank
all of the members
of the Alaska National Guard
who defend our nation
against missile attack,
and their Adjutant General,
Brigadier General Torrence Saks.
(applause)
Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you, General.
As well as Brigadier General
Darrin Slayten —
(applause)
— Darren — thank you,
Darren —
Commander of the 176th
Wing Alaska Air National Guard.
Great job.
The men and women who serve at
J-Bear share one vital mission:
to serve in our country’s
“Last Frontier”
as America’s
first line of defense.
Since the Second World War,
our intrepid service
members in Alaska
have proudly stood at the
“top cover for North America.”
You are a powerful warning
to the world
to never strike American soil.
You are a warning
that everybody knows about
and nobody wants to play with.
Here with us today
are paratroopers
of the Spartan Brigade
who wear the maroon beret.
Where are they? Where are they?
(applause)
They look pretty good.
Should I wear
one of those things? Huh?
It’s good when it’s windy out,
I’ll tell you. It’s good.
They recently returned
from the Brigade’s
third deployment to Afghanistan.
And they’ve seen a lot.
I’ve actually spoken
to a couple,
and I know how they feel.
It’s going on for 19 years.
Made a lot of progress,
but 19 years.
We just took over — you know,
you kept hearing
it was 90 percent, 92 percent —
the caliphate in Syria.
Now it’s 100 percent.
We just took over.
A hundred percent caliphate.
That means the area of the land.
We just have 100 percent,
so that’s good.
We did that in a much
shorter period of time
than it was supposed to be.
It was supposed to take —
I won’t tell you
what a certain general told me.
But I went and met a couple
of other generals, and I said,
“How long do you think
it can take, General?”
“One week, sir.” I said,
“One week? I heard two years.”
“One week, sir. Let us do it
the way we want to do it.”
I said, “General, do it.”
And you saw what happened.
Right? Everybody saw.
We have the whole thing.
Among those with us
is Sergeant Sean Rogers,
who, a few weeks ago, received
the Bronze Star for Valor.
Where is Sean?
Sergeant Sean,
around here someplace.
Where are you, handsome devil?
(applause)
Come up here. Come up.
Should I bring him up?
I won’t bring the generals.
(applause)
I won’t bring the generals up,
but come on, Sean, get up here.
Don’t worry
about Secret Service.
You can take them, Sean.
(laughter)
Secret Service immediately
runs up.
(laughter)
Sergeant Rogers:
Thank you, sir.
The President:  You want to say
something? Come on.
Sergeant Rogers:  No,
I’m fine, sir.
(Laughs.)
(laughter)
The President:  Listen, come on.
Maybe he’s a natural politician.
Sergeant Rogers:  Just
thank you, I guess.
(Laughs.)
The President:  Good job, right?
Sergeant Rogers:  Yes, sir.
(applause)
Thank you, sir.
The President:  Thank you.
That was a good response,
(inaudible).
(laughter)
Brave guy.
While he was in Afghanistan,
Sean and his team
occupied a rooftop and provided
cover for a Special Forces team.
Sean rushed into the enemy fire
to rescue a member of his team,
Specialist Gabriel Condy.
Now, I don’t know, is —
let’s see, who else is here
from that area,
from that part, Sean?
Anybody with you? Anybody else?
Yeah. Okay.
Tragically, Specialist Condy
did not make it alive.
And, today, we remember
the heroic sacrifice
of this incredible
American hero.
We are eternally grateful
in his debt.
And, Sean, I want to thank you
and everybody else involved.
But that’s really —
really something.
And we pay great respect.
You know that.
To everyone here today
who fights for our flag
across the globe:
Thank you for bravely facing
down the danger to protect —
and have such danger
out there —
the lives and liberty
of all Americans.
Our country is stronger now
maybe than it’s ever been.
Our military is being rebuilt
at a rapid pace.
Our economy is powerful.
Our economy is probably as good
as it’s ever been, or better.
Unemployment numbers
are historic.
You’ve been seeing
black unemployment,
African American
unemployment —
lowest levels in the history
of our country.
Hispanic unemployment —
lowest levels in the history
of our country.
Lowest levels.
Best they’ve ever been.
Women — lowest in 61 years.
Sixty-one years.
Asian unemployment —
lowest in history,
history of our country.
And we’re just doing great.
We’re setting records.
The stock market is, right now,
almost at an all-time high.
I have about 18 records.
It then went down a little bit
because we had to
a couple of trade deals,
and people didn’t understand.
Now they’re starting to say,
“You know, that was pretty good.
That’s good what he is doing.”
We’re negotiating now with China
and others — Mexico, Canada.
We’ve done those deals.
They have to get approved
by Congress.
We’ll see what happens.
Dealing with Congress
is never easy.
I don’t think
they like me too much.
(laughter)
But they have to do —
ultimately,
they have to do
what’s right.
But I will say that
you’re looking at a country now
that’s doing better than ever.
And there’s something —
it has to be —
you’re protecting our country.
You’re protecting us.
And I would think
it must feel good to know
that the country
is doing really well,
as opposed to really badly,
like it has done
not so long ago.
So you’re protecting something
that’s very special.
All over the world,
they’re talking about us.
I go and I meet the prime
ministers and presidents,
and kings and queens,
and they all say,
“Mr. President, congratulations
on your economy —
especially on your economy.
We’re trying to copy it,
and it’s not working.”
It’s just not working
for other countries.
Other countries
are not doing well.
And I want them to do well.
But China is way down.
The EU is down.
A lot of countries
are very much down.
Most of them.
And we’re hitting new highs.
So we’re doing
a lot of things right,
and you folks are
a big reason for it.
Also with us today
are the amazing people
and airmen of the 673rd
Air Base Wing.
In the wake of
a 7.0 magnitude earthquake,
which was just recent,
and I remember seeing it.
I said, “Boy, oh, boy.
That’s a big one — 7.0.”
Took place in November.
They successfully
restored airfield operations
here at J-Bear
in under one hour.
That’s pretty quick.
Did you —
what did you do to do that?
That’s — well, number one,
I gave you good equipment,
right? Huh?
(laughter)
Safeguarding NORAD’s vital
homeland security mission.
Thank you for your incredible
work. That’s incredible.
I heard that you were up
and running in about an hour.
And it was pretty —
you were hit hard.
Alaska hosts the largest
combined training area
for American air, ground,
and maritime forces.
You know the best way to
Keep America
safe is to keep America strong.
And the stronger we get,
the less likely it is that
we’ll have to use that strength.
Right, generals?
It’s an incredible —
it’s an incredible —
we learned that in high school,
we learned that way
before high school.
But the stronger you are,
the stronger you can be,
the less likely it is
you’ll have to use that strength
and that power.
And that’s what we’re doing.
We’re making you so strong.
And soon, I can honestly say,
strong like we’ve never
been strong before.
That’s why,
in the last two years,
I’ve spent —
when you think about it —
over $1.5 trillion.
Next year, the 11th Air Force,
headquartered
right here at J-Bear,
will receive the first of
54 brand-new —
never used before —
F-35 fighter jets.
You like them?
(applause)
Well, for the pilots — you know,
I’ve seen a lot of the pilots
throughout the country
when I stop at different places,
and I say,
“How do you like the F-35?”
“We love it, sir.”
“Well, how good is it compared
to the enemy aircraft?”
“Well, sir, you can’t see it.”
I said, “Explain that to me.”
“You know, it’s stealth.”
It’s the stealthiest plane,
by far, in the world.
So they say, “Well, when we have
battles, you can’t see it.”
I said, “Huh,
that would be tough.”
Wouldn’t it be tough if you have
somebody and you can’t see it?
So all I say is this:You get 54
brand new ones.
I won’t tell you what they cost
because it’s too much.
(laughter)
But it’s a lot of money.
But they’re very special
and you’re getting
very special planes,
a lot of them — 54.
So they’ll be
arriving here very soon.
And all of the generals,
I hope you’re going to give them
all to the best pilots,
and you’re going to take
good care of those planes
and good care of those pilots.
Right?
Okay?
It’s really an honor.
But you’re getting a big,
big number.
We’ll also deploy 20 more
ground-based interceptors
to Fort Greeley,
which will further strengthen
our missile defense system.
So important.
Missile defense system
is also being rebuilt
very substantially.
And we’re going to have
the latest and the greatest.
Unfortunately,
as soon as you have it,
you have to redo it because,
after about six months,
everything becomes
obsolete in this world.
Right?
We do that, they do this.
It’s never ending.
But that’s the way it goes.
It’s a cycle.
Our goal is very simple:
to ensure that we can
monitor, detect,
and destroy any missile launched
against the United States,
no matter what speed
we’re talking about.
Any missile.
We’re spending a tremendous
amount of money
now on missile technology and
also missile defense technology,
at my very strong urging.
And what they’re able
to do now is incredible.
It’s like shooting
a needle in the haystack.
It’s incredible
technology they have.
And I said, “Upgrade it further
and further. Advance it.”
America
does not seek conflict,
but if we are forced
to defend ourselves,
we will fight and we will win
in an overwhelming fashion.
That’s where we are.
We will forever be grateful for
your service and your sacrifice.
And we will always ensure
that you have the tools,
resources, and support you need
to defeat our nation’s enemies
and safeguard the freedoms
given to us by Almighty God.
To everyone at J-Bear:
We salute you.
We thank you
for your incredible service.
We love you.
God bless you.
And God bless the men
and women of the armed forces.
God bless America.
And thank you for doing
such a fantastic job.
Thank you very much, everybody.
Thank you.
(applause)